Welcome to Final Project about Survival Analysis of Titanic!

# Introduction
This project aims to investigate the demographic distributions of the passengers and survivors on Titanic, which sank in the North Atlantic Ocean on 15 April 1912 after striking an iceberg. According to previously published data, more than 1,500 of estimated 2,224 passengers passed away during the accident. In the data set used for this analysis, the name, age, sex, fare, class, parch, and family size of total 891 passengers were demonstrated, and "0" and "1" were used to respectively show whether the passengers were not survived or survived. 

# Data Summary
The data set collects cleaned and detailed information including 10 continuous (passenger ID, age, cabin, fare, parch, class, sib, survived, ticket, family size) and 4 discrete (embarked, name, sex, title) variables, while "survived" and "class" were converted into categorical variables during the procedures of data analysis. We assumed that the variables reflecting the demographic attributes of passengers, such as age, sex, and fare could be essential predictors of survival in this case. And a brief analysis of of the data is accomplished in R Studio, specifically, the minimum age is 0.42 and the maximum age is 80, while the median age is 30 and the mean age is 29.45, as for fare which detailedly indicates the social classes of passengers, the minimum fare is 0 and the maximum fare is 512.33, while the median fare is 14.45 and the mean fare 32.20. 

# Data Analytics
In order to explore which variable or combination of variables serve as good predictors of survival as well as find the most prominent trends, we started to roughly analyze the percentages of survival in the three different classes with the package "stargazer" in R Studio. We found that in the 3rd class, 119 of 491 (24.24%) passengers survived, and in the 2nd class, 87 of 184 (47.28%) passengers survived, and in the 1st class, 136 of 216 (62.96%) passengers survived. As for different sex, 109 of 577 (18.89%) male passengers survived, while 233 of 314 (74.20%) female passengers survived. In R Studio, a few basic coding with "readxl", "stargazer", and "microbenchmark" packages could accurately show the distributions of the survivors in different discrete variables. In consequential, we found that higher the class is, the higher the survival rate would be, specifically, 3rd class had the lowest survival rate at 24.24%, and 2nd class was at the middle with a survival rate at 47.28%, and 1st class has the highest survival rate at 62.96%, respectively. Moreover, for another basic discrete variable sex, female has a much higher survival rate at 74.20% than male at 18.89%. Associating the variable "class" with "sex", we found that in the 2nd and 1st classes, there were not significant disparities between the numbers of female and male, specifically, the 2nd class had 76 female (41.30%) and 108 male (58.70%), while the 1st class had 92 female (43.52%) and 122 male (56.48%). However, there was a huge difference between the number of female and male in the 3rd class, and 347 of the passengers were male (70.67%) while 144 of the passengers were female (29.33%), which meant male had a dominant proportion in the 3rd class. In terms of the journal Social Class and Survival on the S.S. Titanic (W Hall, 1986), the reasons why female passengers had higher survival rate should be due to the "women and children first" protocol, and most of the women on Titanic were traveling with their husbands or male family members, who chose to stay behind until the women and children board the lifeboats. In addition, more body fat and warmer clothing might also help the female passengers to stay afloat in the cold water for longer periods than male passengers did. Then, for data visualization, we decided to use scatter plots and line charts from the package "ggplot2"" to show the distributions of the passengers and survivors. One of the biggest challenges was that the variable "Survived" was continuous in the data set, and we had to convert it into discrete with the "cut" function and "breaks" argument. First, we created a line chart to show the age and fare of both female and male passengers, specifically, we used the two continuous variables "age" and "fare" as axes while two lines in various colors indicated female and male. From the plots, we found that the passengers between the age 15 and 65 had higher fares which meant they were probably staying at a prior class. And we compared the distribution of the survivors and found that it was similar to the distribution of all passengers, but one interesting fact was that there were more male survivors who had higher fare below the age 20 while more female survivors who had higher fare above the age 60, which were adversed with the distribution of passengers. We created scatter plots with the same variables and concluded the same distributions, while the scatter plots better showed the distributions of individuals. At the same time, we used Tableau to visualize the data and showed the same demographic distributions of passengers and survivors.Tableau which had a different operating system allowed us to drag the variables in particular locations to create plots. We created a plot to show the distributions of passengers' age, fare, and sex with a scatter plot, and we separately created bar chats to visualize the pairwise correlations among the three variables "age", "fare", "sex" for the survivors. Tableau contained different features of plots which could help conduct a comprehensive analysis, although we could not find a solution to visualize the correlations among more than two variables. And we attempted to create a pie chart, but it required to add new continuous variables showing the amount of passengers and survivors. 

#Conclusion
Consequently, based on the data summary and data analytics with R Studio and Tableau, we found that the discrete variables "sex" which indicated whether the passengers were female or male and "fare (class)" which indicated the social classes of the passengers should be the predictors of survival. And the survival rate of female was significantly higher than male, while the more prior the class a passenger stayed (the higher the fare was), the higher survival rate a passenger would have. According to the "Mersey Committee of Inquiry", about 69.8% of female passengers and 20.3% of male passengers survived from the sinking, which were close to the rates reflected by the data set at 74.20% for female and 18.89% for male. In addition, the trend that the chances to survive declined from 1st to 3rd class was also verified by the data set, and a dominant proportion of male passengers in the 3rd class could also explain the low survival rate of passengers in the 3rd class. 

#DevOps
As for the pros and cons of using github for a solo project, I think it was a convenient and secure platform to complete and share the projects of data analytics, and there were resources which could provide some methods and relevant technical supports as well. For the cons, it might be better if the section of "README" which included the introduction of the project could appear on the top when I opened the page. Although I had not tried to use github for a group project yet, I think it would be helpful for group members to share resources and information and accomplished the projects consisted of multiple segments. 
